
The three basic types of cloud services are:
Computing - These include EC2, Elastic Beanstalk, Lambda, Auto-Scaling, and Lightsat.
Storage - These include S3, Glacier, Elastic Block Storage, Elastic File System.
Networking - These include VPC, Amazon CloudFront, Route53

AWS REGION=A PHYSICAL LOCATION-consists of multiple(3min) AVAILABILITY ZONES
AWS has the concept of a Region, which is a physical location around the world where AWS clusters data centers. Each AWS Region consists of multiple (three or more), isolated, and physically separate Availability Zones (AZ) within a geographic area. Each Availability Zone (AZ) has independent power, cooling, and physical security and is connected via redundant, ultra-low-latency networks

The 5 Pillars of the AWS Well-Architected Framework

Security - Identity and key management, Encryption, Security monitoring and logging, dedicated instances, compliance, governance 
Cost Optimization - RI and spot, volume tuning, service selection, consolidated billing, resource utilization, decommisioning
Reliability -  Service limits, multi A-Z regions, scalability, health checks and monitoring, networking, self healing/disaster recovery
Performance Efficiency - Right AWS Services, storage arhitecture, resource utilization, caching, latency requirements, planning and benchmarking
Operational Excellence -CI/CD, runbooks, playbooks, game days, Infrastructure as a code IaaC, RCAS

AMAZON S3
S3- Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) is an object storage service offering industry-leading scalability, data availability, security, and performance
- Amazon S3 provides the most durable storage in the cloud and industry leading availability. Based on its unique architecture, S3 is designed to provide 99.999999999% (11 nines) data durability and 99.99% availability by default, backed by the strongest SLAs in the cloud.
- S3 is secure, private, and encrypted by default
- S3's free tier offers a 12 month free trial that provides 5GB of Amazon S3 storage in the S3 Standard storage class; 20,000 GET Requests; 2,000 PUT, COPY, POST, or LIST Requests; and 100 GB of Data Transfer Out each month
- Amazon S3 stores data as objects within buckets. An object is a file and any metadata that describes the file. A bucket is a container for objects. To store your data in Amazon S3, you first create a bucket and specify a bucket name and AWS Region. Then, you upload your data to that bucket as objects in Amazon S3. Each object has a key (or key name), which is the unique identifier for the object within the bucket
- Storage classes:
S3 Intelligent-Tiering, S3 Standard, S3 Express One Zone, S3 Standard-Infrequent Access (S3 Standard-IA), S3 One Zone-Infrequent Access (S3 One Zone-IA), S3 Glacier Instant Retrieval, S3 Glacier Flexible Retrieval, S3 Glacier Deep Archive, and S3 Outposts
